Additions
=========

.. contents:: **Contents**


Standard Views in rTorrent
--------------------------

This is how `standard views in rTorrent <https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent/wiki/User-Guide#main-view-keys>`_ are set up.

===  ==============  =======  =========  =============================
Key  View            Updated  Collapsed  Sorting, filtering properties
===  ==============  =======  =========  =============================
 1   ``main``        20 sec   *          sorted by ``downloaded time`` desc
 2   ``name``        20 sec   *          sorted by ``name``
 3   ``started``     20 sec   *          sorted by ``last active`` desc, group by ``complete``, ``throttle``, ``download and upload speed`` desc
 4   ``stopped``              *          sorted by ``downloaded time`` desc, group by ``complete``, ``throttle``
 5   ``complete``             *          sorted by ``completed time`` desc
 6   ``incomplete``           *          sorted by ``download and upload speed`` desc, group by ``open`` desc, ``throttle``
 7   ``hashing``                         sorted by ``loaded time`` desc, group by ``throttle``
 8   ``seeding``     20 sec   *          sorted by ``upload speed`` desc, group by ``throttle``, only torrents with peers are shown
 9   ``leeching``    20 sec              sorted by ``download and upload speed`` desc, group by ``throttle``, only torrents with peers are shown
 0   ``active``      20 sec   *          sorted by ``download and upload speed`` desc, group by ``open`` desc, ``throttle``, ``complete`` desc, only active or incomplete torrents are shown
===  ==============  =======  =========  =============================


Extra Views in rTorrent
-----------------------

There are extra views defined along with the `standard views in rTorrent <https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent/wiki/User-Guide#main-view-keys>`_.

===  ================  =========  =============================
Key  View              Collapsed  Sorting, filtering properties
===  ================  =========  =============================
 ^   ``rtcontrol``     *          
 !   ``messages``      *          sorted by ``downloaded time``, group by ``throttle``, ``message``
 t   ``trackers``      *          sorted by ``downloaded time`` desc, group by ``domain``
 :   ``tagged``        *          
 <   ``datasize``      *          sorted by ``selected data size`` desc
 >   ``uploadeddata``  *          sorted by ``uploaded data`` desc, ``downloaded time`` desc
 %   ``ratio``         *          sorted by ``ratio`` desc, ``uploaded data`` desc, ``downloaded time`` desc
 @   ``category``      *          sorted by ``category``, ``name``
 ?   ``deletable``     *          sorted by ``downloaded time``, group by ``unsafe_data`` desc, ``throttle`` desc, only deletable torrents are shown
===  ================  =========  =============================


Extra Columns on Extended Canvas
--------------------------------

The following extra columns are modified / added on the fully customizable `extended canvas <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps-ch/blob/master/docs/Manual.rst#built-in-columns-in-the-collapsed-display>`_, since in ``rTorrent-PS-CH v1.7.0-0.9.7`` all the columns are configurable (can be disabled, overridden or new ones added on-the-fly) except for "Name" and "Tracker Domain" columns.

==============  ====================================  ===========
 Column          Key                                  Description
==============  ====================================  ===========
 ⊘              "200:1:⊘"                             Throttle (none = global, ∞ = NULL, ⊼ = slowup, ⊻ = tardyup throttle)
 ◎              "230:1:◎"                             Unsafe-data (none = safe data, ⊘ = unsafe data, ⊗ = unsafe data with delqueue)
 ⊕              "250:1:⊕"                             Data directory (none = base path entry is missing, otherwise the first letter of the name of data directory)
==============  ====================================  ===========


Extra Keyboard shortcuts in rTorrent
------------------------------------

There are extra keyboard shortcuts defined along with the `original ones in rTorrent <https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent/wiki/User-Guide#navigating>`_.

====  ========================================
Key   Functionality
====  ========================================
 F    subfilter the current view based on the name of downloads by entering a regexp (capital ``f``) (defined in ``rTorrent-PS-CH``)
↑, ↓  prev, next in input history (at any input prompt, e.g. at ``^x``) (defined in ``rTorrent-PS-CH``)
ESC   exit from any input prompt (e.g. at ``^x``) (defined in ``rTorrent-PS-CH``)
 }    toggle ``unsafe_data`` for a download item
 #    send manual scrape request for a download item
 .    toggle tag for a download item
 T    clear ``tag`` view
 ^g   display tags for a download item
 \*   toggle collapsed/expanded display
 /    toggle visibility of columns on collapsed display
 \|   toggle selectable themes
 =    toggle autoscale network history
home  Home
end   End
pgup  Pageg Up
pgdn  Page Down
 F2   display quick help resources
 ^q   DISABLED (used to exit rtorrent)
====  ========================================



Extra Variables in rTorrent config files
---------------------------------------

The following variables are added in rTorrent config files.

cfg.inotify.use
^^^^^^^^^^^
Determines whether to use inotify for loading/removing torrent (meta) files from watch directories.

- values ``[0|1]``, ``1`` means inotify will be used

cfg.external_dnscache.use
^^^^^^^^^^^
Determines whether to use external DNS cache instead of the built-in one of CURL.

- values ``[0|1]``, ``1`` means external DNS cache will be used.

cfg.interface.bind
^^^^^^^^^^^
Sets an interface with IPv4 address to bind to.

- values ``[eth0|tun0|...]``

cfg.scrape_interval.[active|idle]
^^^^^^^^^^^
Sets scrape intervals for active (``580`` ~10 mins) and idle items (``43180`` ~12 hours).

pyro.last_xfer.min_rate
^^^^^^^^^^^
Sets the min uprate/downrate threshold for last_xfer custom field in Bytes.

cfg.slowup.d.[peers_min|peers_max|uploads_max]
^^^^^^^^^^^
Values used for ``min_peers`` / ``max_peers`` / ``max_uploads`` settings of downloads that belong to non-special groups and those values will be overridden by per torrent settings in Favouring section of main config file.

cfg.[slowup|tardyup].uprate.[min|max]
^^^^^^^^^^^
Values used for getting the upload rate limit for throttle groups in KB.

cfg.[slowup|tardyup].slots.[leech|seed].max
^^^^^^^^^^^
Values used for getting the max number of upload/download slots during leeching and seeding for choke groups.

cfg.global.downrate.[min|max], cfg.global.[upall|upmain].threshold
^^^^^^^^^^^
Values used for getting the global download rate limit in KB.

cfg.global.slot.uprate.min
^^^^^^^^^^^
Min value of uprate per upload slot (unchoked peers) in KB.

cfg.dir.[main|sub|incomplete|meta_downl|meta_compl|delqueue|session|logs]
^^^^^^^^^^^
Directory constants.

cfg.postfix
^^^^^^^^^^^
Custom string that can help to use different config files, scripts with different setups based on naming. It can be an empty string as well.

cfg.theme.[0|1|2]
^^^^^^^^^^^
Define selectable color theme configs.

pyro.bin_dir
^^^^^^^^^^^
Sets "pyro.bin_dir" to the "bin" directory where the ``pyrocore`` tools are installed. Make sure you end it with a "/". If this is left empty, then the shell's path is searched

pyro.[extended|extended.ch]
^^^^^^^^^^^
Determines whether to activate rTorrent-PS / rTorrent-PS-CH features.

pyro.[log_archival|log_retention].days
^^^^^^^^^^^
Sets archival and retention delay in days for log rotation if it's enabled.



Extra Attributes in rTorrent config files
---------------------------------------

The following custom field attributes are added in rTorrent config files.

unsafe_data
^^^^^^^^^^^
Determines whether data of a torrent is deletable.

-  ``unsafe_data`` : values ``[|0|1|2]``, ``1`` means ``unsafe_data``, ``2`` means ``unsafe_data in delete queue``

data_dir
^^^^^^^^
Determines the sub-directory (category) for data of a torrent. It's used with watch directories and continously updated during the lifetime of a torrent.

-  ``data_dir`` : name of category, e.g. ``unsafe``, ``rotating``

meta_dir
^^^^^^^^
Determines the sub-directory (category) for meta file of a torrent. It's used with watch directories and continously updated during the lifetime of a torrent.

-  ``meta_dir`` : name of category, e.g. ``unsafe``, ``rotating``

orig_category
^^^^^^^^
Name of category the download was originally assigned to.

tm_downloaded
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Timestamp, time the torrent file was downloaded (created locally).

tm_loaded
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Timestamp, time the torrent was loaded into client.

tm_started
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Timestamp, first time the torrent was started.

tm_completed
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Timestamp, time of completion of the torrent.

last_active
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Timestamp, last time the torrent had peers.

last_xfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Timestamp, last time the torrent had transfered data.

activations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Activation intervals.

tm_last_scrape
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Timestamp, last time when a scrape request was sent for the torrent.


Extra Commands in rTorrent config files
---------------------------------------

The following commands can be used in rtorrent with ``^x``.

d.move_to=category_name,special_group,unsafe_data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Moves data (can be partially downloaded) and meta (.torrent) file of a torrent into another directories at the same time and updates all necessary attributes of it.

-  ``category_name`` : one of the category directories, e.g. ``unsafe``, ``songs``, etc
-  ``special_group`` : boolean, values ``[|0|1]``, ``1`` means special group 
-  ``unsafe_data`` : values ``[|0|1|2]``, ``1`` means ``unsafe_data``, ``2`` means ``unsafe_data in delete queue``

Example usage: ``d.move_to=rotating,1,1``, ``d.move_to=rotating,1,2``, ``d.move_to=fullseed,1,``, ``d.move_to=unsafe,,1``, ``d.move_to=unsafe,,2``, ``d.move_to=various,,`` 

d.move_meta_to=category_name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Moves a finished, stucked meta file from the downloading directory into its final place (thanks to the simetimes missing ``meta_dir`` custom field value, rtorrent bug on OpenWRT?). It can also be useful if a category name is changed.

-  ``category_name`` : one of the category directories, e.g. ``unsafe``, ``songs``, etc

Example usage: ``d.move_meta_to=rotating``, ``d.move_meta_to=fullseed``, ``d.move_meta_to=unsafe``, ``d.move_meta_to=various`` 

d.data_path=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Gets the full path of data of a torrent (it's a workaround for the possibly empty `d.base_path` attribute).

d.session_file=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Gets the full path of the session file of a torrent.

d.remove_data=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Deletes data of a torrent if data dir/file of a torrent exists and its data is not bogus and removes symlink for its metafile if it exists or prints out an error message.

d.add_to_delqueue=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Adds torrent to delete queue by creating a symlink in ``.delqueue`` dir to its metafile and setting ``unsafe_data`` custom variable to ``2``. This command is bind to ``}`` key.

d.remove_from_delqueue=[unsafe_data]
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Removes torrent from delete queue by deleting its symlink if it exists from ``.delqueue`` dir. This command is bind to ``}`` key.

-  ``unsafe_data`` : optional parameter, values ``[|0|1]``, ``1`` means ``unsafe_data``

Usage: ``d.remove_from_delqueue=``, ``d.remove_from_delqueue=1``

d.fix_delqueue_flag=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Fixes ``unsafe_data`` values depending on a symlink in ``.delqueue`` directory exists or not. Useful if symlinks are sometimes created manually or by a script in ``.delqueue`` dir.

d.get_ratio_float=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Returns d.ratio as float formatted string.

d.modify_slots_both=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Modifies the ``peers_min``, ``peers_max``, ``max_uploads`` values of a torrent for both downloading and uploading based on which group (special or not) it belongs to.

d.last_scrape.send_set=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Sends scrape request for a torrent, sets its ``tm_last_scrape`` timestamp custom field and saves its session. This command is bind to ``#`` key.

It won't affect the operation of rtorrent, but nice to have these values updated. This info is only updated when rtorrent starts or a torrent is added by default. Although this setup regularly updates scrape information for all torrents (even stopped ones), sometimes this command can be useful.

d.last_active=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Returns the value of ``last_active`` timestamp custom field of a torrent or current timestamp if it has peers.

d.last_xfer=
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Returns the value of ``last_xfer`` timestamp custom field of a torrent or current timestamp if it transfer data.

get_elapsed_time=
^^^^^^^
Returns elapsed time between 2 timestamps in the form of ``6 years, 5 months, 18 days, 02:40:00``. Year/month info isn't shown if their value is 0.

pyro.print_help=
^^^^^^^
Displays quick help resources.

pyro.ui.messages.show=
^^^^^^^
Switches current view to ``messages`` and prints the size of the view.

pyro.view.toggle_visible=view_name
^^^^^^^
Sets view visible.

ui.columns.enable=
^^^^^^^
Enables the visibility of certain columns.

ui.columns.disable=
^^^^^^^
Disables the visibility of certain columns.

ui.columns.toggle=
^^^^^^^
Toggles visibility of certain columns.

uptime=
^^^^^^^
Returns uptime (with the help of ``getElapsedTime.sh`` script) in the form of ``Up: 6 years, 5 months, 18 days, 02:39:57``. Year/month info isn't shown if their value is 0.

hrf_time=timestamp
^^^^^^^
Displays any valid timestamp value in human readable format or print the value itself (e.g.: ``30/06/2013 23:47:33``).

Usage: ``hrf_time=$d.creation_date=``, ``hrf_time=$d.custom=tm_last_scrape``

get_uprate_main=
^^^^^^^
Gets current uprate in KB for special group.

get_total_rotating_size=
^^^^^^^
Gets total size of rotating and unsafe downloads.

pyro.import=rtconfig_filename
^^^^^^^^^^^^
Imports the specified config file from ``~/.pyroscope/`` directory.

-  ``rtconfig_filename`` : name of rtorrent config file in ``~/.pyroscope/`` directory, e.g. ``rtorrent-ps.rc``, ``color_scheme256-happy_pastel.rc``

Usage: pyro.import="color_scheme256-happy_pastel.rc"

quit=
^^^^^^^
Exits ``rTorrent`` gracefully.


Extra Bash functions
--------------------

rtlistOrphans
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
List orphaned torrents.

Usage: ``rtlistOrphans``

rtlistOrphanMetas
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
List orphaned torrent (meta) files.

Usage: ``rtlistOrphanMetas``

rtlistPublic
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
List public torrents.

Usage: ``rtlistPublic``

rtlistStuck
^^^^^^^^^^^
List stuck torrents in incomplete directory.

Usage: ``rtlistStuck``

rtlistMessages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
List torrents with unusual trackers messages.

Usage: ``rtlistMessages``

rtlistStopped
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
List stopped torrents.

Usage: ``rtlistStopped``

rtgetTotalRotatingSize
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Get total size of rotating and unsafe torrents.

Usage: ``rtgetTotalRotatingSize``



Extra Bash scripts
------------------

addMagnetLink.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Creates a magnet torrent file from magnet URI into one of the watch directories of rTorrent.

Usage: ``addMagnetLink.sh "magnet:?xt=urn:btih:foobar..."``

doBackup.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^
Backup session directory of rtorrent.

Usage: ``doBackup.sh``

getElapsedTime.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^
Calculates and prints elapsed time between 2 timestamps in the form of ``6 years, 5 months, 18 days, 02:40:00``. Year/month info isn't shown if their value is 0. It's used by ``get_elapsed_time=`` and ``uptime=`` methods in rtorrent.

Usage: ``getElapsedTime.sh <<current_timestamp>> <<startup_timestamp>>``

queueTorrent.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Queue management script with rotating (deleting data) capability and category support (that can be included into a main script as well).

Usage: ``queueTorrent.sh`` or including in a main script: ``. "${BASH_SOURCE%/*}/queueTorrent.sh"``

reportMessages.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Send email report about any torrent with unusual tracker message.

Usage: ``reportMessages.sh``

reportOrphans.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Send email report about any orphaned torrent.

Usage: ``reportOrphans.sh``

reportOrphanMetas.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Send email report about any orphaned meta files.

Usage: ``reportOrphanMetas.sh``

reportPublic.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Send email report about any public torrent.

Usage: ``reportPublic.sh``

reportStopped.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Send email report about any torrent that is stopped.

Usage: ``reportStopped.sh``

reportStuck.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Send email report about any stuck torrent in incomplete directory.

Usage: ``reportStuck.sh``

reportLowRotatingSpace.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Send email report about low rotating space (in rotating and unsafe directory, including free space).

Usage: ``reportLowRotatingSpace.sh``

rtUtils.sh
^^^^^^^^^^
General script with helper functions that can be included into main scripts.

Usage: including in a main script: ``. "${BASH_SOURCE%/*}/rtUtils.sh"``

sampleDownload.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Sample download script to demonstrate usage of inclusion of queue script inside a main script.

Usage: ``sampleDownload.sh``

rtorrent init script
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Init script. It can be installed and enabled by running: ``sudo update-rc.d rtorrent defaults 92`` and ``sudo update-rc.d rtorrent enable``.

Usage: ``sudo /etc/init.d/rtorrent [start|stop|restart|force-reload|status]``
