Installation instructions
=========================

.. contents:: **Contents**


Requirements
------------

Hardware
^^^^^^^^

Fortunately ``rtorrent`` is very lightweight so you don't need any special hardware for it. The minimal suggested config is:

* dual-core CPU, 2-4 GB RAM, large HDD


OS
^^^^^^^^

Although probably all Linux based OS would work, but a Debian based one (Debian/Ubuntu) is suggested with ``bash v4.x`` (some of the shell scripts use features of it). These instructions assume it.

What will not work with the extended-canvas of ``rTorrent-PS-CH`` is an OS without proper ``locale`` support, like OpenWRT.


Installation
------------

Let's see the hard part :) These instructions will work on a freshly installed minimal OS as well.

Core of the setup
^^^^^^^^

Please refer `Debian Install From Source - The Easy Way <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps/blob/master/docs/DebianInstallFromSourceTheEasyWay.rst>`_ to get ``rTorrent-PS-CH`` and ``pyrocore`` utilities up and running in ``tmux`` in 30 minutes.

This will also take care of the major dependencies.

Getting this project in hand
^^^^^^^^

This should be used under your normal user account.

.. code-block::

   mkdir -p ~/src/; cd ~/src/
   git clone https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup.git


Additional stuff
^^^^^^^^

These steps must be performed by the ``root`` user (i.e. in a root shell, or by writing ``sudo`` before the actual command).

If we missed something
"""""""""

Just in case to be on the safe side. ``ssmtp`` is used for email reporting.

.. code-block::

   apt-get install coreutils dialog sudo ssmtp

Location of HDD
"""""""""

This setup assumes that a symlink called ``Torrents`` are created in ``/mnt`` directory that actually points to the main ``Torrents`` directory of the mounted HDD in ``/media/chros/wdred``. You can create such a symlink like this:

.. code-block::

   ln -s /media/chros/wdred/Torrents /mnt/Torrents

Samba server
"""""""""

If you need Samba file sharing server on your local network then you can install it by:

.. code-block::

   apt-get install samba

`Here <https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/samba-fileserver.html>`_ are some explained options for the `example config <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/samba/smb.conf>`_, along with instructions how to connect to it from `Windows <Windows-8.1#connect-to-samba-share>`_ and `Android <Android-5.0#connect-to-samba-share>`_ devices.

FTP server
"""""""""

You can install e.g. ``proftpd`` by:

.. code-block::

   apt-get install proftpd openssl

Here are `example configs <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/tree/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/proftpd>`_, along with instructions how to connect to it from `Windows <Windows-8.1#connect-via-ftp>`_ and `Android <Android-5.0#connect-via-ftp>`_ devices.

Here is how to `generate a server certificate <https://www.server-world.info/en/note?os=Ubuntu_14.04&p=ssl>`_ to be able to use ``TLS`` with it.

You also need the modified `init script <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/init.d/proftpd>`_ for it to prevent being killed by ``logrotate`` on Ubuntu 14.04 (`read more <https://oitibs.com/fix-proftpd-killed-signal-15/>`_).

Raising open file limit for a user
"""""""""

In order to be able to raise the default ``1024`` ``open file limit`` for a user, these lines has to be added into their corresponding files:

* `/etc/pam.d/common-session <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/pam.d/common-session#L32>`_
* `/etc/pam.d/common-session-noninteractive <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/pam.d/common-session-noninteractive#L31>`_
* `/etc/security/limits.conf <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/security/limits.conf#L56>`_

SSMTP
"""""""""

To be able to receive email reports to your ``gmail account`` all you need is this `simple config <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/ssmtp/ssmtp.conf>`_ file, modify the following directives in it: ``root``, ``AuthUser``, ``AuthPass``.

Other system tweaks
"""""""""

You can also apply some other system tweaks with the help of `sysctl.conf <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/sysctl.conf>`_ file.


rTorrent related stuff
^^^^^^^^

Finally we arrived to the part that actually interests us.

init script
"""""""""

You need ``root`` for this as well. Assuming ``rTorrent-PS-CH`` was installed in the `system wide <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps/blob/master/docs/DebianInstallFromSourceTheEasyWay.rst#system-wide>`_ way, place the `init script <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/init.d/rtorrent>`_ into ``/etc/init.d/`` and edit the ``user``, ``sessiondir`` variables at the beginning of it. You can install and enable it on Ubuntu by running:

.. code-block::

   update-rc.d rtorrent defaults 92
   update-rc.d rtorrent enable

In order to be able to use ``status`` and ``start`` functionality of it from a script, `/etc/sudoers <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/sudoers>`_ file has to be modified as well. You have to edit the username in 2 places.

Directory structure
"""""""""

We can switch to a normal user account now.

Copy the given `directory structure <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/tree/master/ubuntu-14.04/mnt/Torrents>`_ into the above created ``/mnt/Torrents`` directory. That will setup all the needed categories as well.

We have to delete all the unnecessary ``.gitignore`` files from them with:

.. code-block::

   find "/mnt/Torrents/" -type f -iname .gitignore -delete

Additional files
"""""""""

Copy all the directories/files from the given `home <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/tree/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73>`_ directory into yours ``~/``. Check the content of yours if some files wanted to be overwritten. 

You have to check the variables at the beginning of the following:

* `.profile_rtfunctions <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/.profile_rtfunctions>`_, `.pyroscope/templates/orphans-ch.txt <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/.pyroscope/templates/orphans-ch.txt>`_
* script files in ``~/bin/`` directory: `addMagnetLink.sh <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/bin/addMagnetLink.sh>`_, `doBackup.sh <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/bin/doBackup.sh>`_, `getLimits.sh <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/bin/getLimits.sh>`_, `queueTorrent.sh <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/bin/queueTorrent.sh>`_, `rtUtils.sh <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/bin/rtUtils.sh>`_

Finally, you only have to modify 1 rtorrent config file: 

* `.rtorrent-config.rc <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/.rtorrent-config.rc>`_

Start rTorrent-PS-CH
"""""""""

Finally, you can try to start ``rTorrent-PS-CH`` with ``sudo`` (it shouldn't ask for password):

.. code-block::

   sudo /etc/init.d/rtorrent start

It should be started in ``tmux`` in the 3rd window.  You can attach to that ``tmux session``, as it will automatically happen when you log in via SSH (with the help of `~/.profile <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/home/chros73/.profile#L27>`_), with:

.. code-block::

   tmux -2u new-session -A -s rtorrent


Run scripts from cron
"""""""""

You need ``root`` for this. If all went well, copy the `example cron <https://github.com/chros73/rtorrent-ps_setup/blob/master/ubuntu-14.04/etc/cron.d/chros73>`_ file into ``/etc/cron.d`` directory. Modify the filename, ``HOME`` variable, and existing usernames in it to your username.


Reboot
^^^^^^

If everything seems to work then reboot the OS: ``rTorrent-PS-CH`` should be automatically started in ``tmux`` and you can manually or will be automatically attach to that session.


SSH key auth
^^^^^^

You also want to setup an SSH server and enable `SSH key authentication <https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/openssh-server.html>`_ to automate login process via SSH.


Summary
-------

It was a piece of cake, wasn't it? :) Enjoy your new `Tamagotchi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tamagotchi>`_!